Core Java Definition:

What is jdk ?

Java Development Kit

What jdk contains or composed of and define each components?

JDK contains one (or more) JRE's along with the various development tools like the Java source compilers, bundling and deployment
tools, debuggers, development libraries, etc. 

JRE (Java Runtime Environment) - Java Runtime Environment contains JVM, class libraries, and other supporting files. 
It does not contain any development tools such as compiler, debugger  etc.

JVM (Java Virtual Machine)- The Java Virtual Machine provides a platform-independent way of executing code; programmers can concentrate on writing software, without having to be concerned with how or where it will run.

What is IDE?
A Java IDE (Integrated Development Environment) is a software application which enables users to more easily write and debug
Java programs.

What are the IDEs available in the market to support java?
Eclipse IDE, Netbeans IDE, IntelliJ IDE

Explain the entire java life cycle.
IDE creates a source code which is then complied by the java Complier. 
It is complied into a .class file which can be loaded by the JVM and run on OS.

what is class?
A class is a blueprint for any object. A class is where we create out methods and object. 

What is object?

Object is an instantiated instance of the class.

What is the entry point of an application?

An entry point is where control enters a program or piece of code. In many programming languages, the main function is where 
a program starts its execution.

Why main is static?

JVM can not create any object before program runs. So, to run the program main should be invoked without creating any object.
 That's why main should be static

What is the difference between an Interface and Abstract class?

Abstract Class and Interface are core part of java programming language, abstract keyword is used to create an abstract class
 and it can be used with methods also whereas interface keyword is used to create interface and it can’t be used with methods.
Can you make an Object from an Interface and Abstract class ? if not how do you use it ?

what is Access Specifier?
 Java Access Specifiers  regulate access to classes, fields and methods in Java.These Specifiers determine whether a field or
 method in a class, can be used or invoked by another method in another class or sub-class. Access Specifiers can be used to restrict access. Access Specifiers are an integral part of object-oriented programming.

What is OOP ? Define each feature of java OOP.
oop-object oriented programming. 

Polymorphis- Polymorphism is the ability of an object to take on many forms.

encapsulation- Encapsulation can be described as a protective barrier that prevents the code and data being randomly accessed by
 other code defined outside the class. Access to the data and code is tightly controlled by an interface.

inheritance - Inheritance is a mechanism wherein a new class is derived from an existing class.

abstraction - Abstraction is the process of abstraction in Java is used to hide certain details and only show the essential
 features of the object.

What is API?
Application Programming Interface.

Does java support multiple inheritance?
no.

What is method overloading and when it happens?

Method overloading deals with the notion of having two or more methods(functions) in the same class with the same name but 
different arguments. Overloading happens at compile time.

What is method overriding and when it happens?
 
Method overriding means having two methods with the same arguments, but different implementation. One of them would exist in the 
Parent class (Base Class) while another will be in the derived class(Child Class).Overriding happens at the run time.

Explain exceptions in java and how to handle it.
An Exception can be anything which interrupts the normal flow of the program. When an exception occurs program processing 
gets terminated and doesn’t continue further. In such cases we get a system generated error message

What is static keyword in java? How it has been used in variables and methods ?

The static keyword is used in java mainly for memory management. We may apply static keyword with variables, methods, 
blocks and nested class. The static keyword belongs to the class than instance of the class.

What is final and how it has been used variables and methods?

Finalizing the value of the variable so that no change can be made.
A final class cannot be subclassed.All methods in a final class are implicity final.
A final method cannot be overridden or hidden by subclass.

Static Variable - Declaring any variable as static, it is known static variable. The static variable can be used to refer the 
common property of all objects (that is not unique for each object) e.g. company name of employees,college name of students etc.
The static variable gets memory only once in class area at the time of class loading. It makes your program memory efficient.

Static Method - A static method belongs to the class rather than object of a class. A static method can be invoked without the
need for creating an instance of a class.static method can access static data member and can change the value of it.

What is final, finally and finalize?

final:
	final is a keyword. The variable decleared as final should be
	initialized only once and cannot be changed. Java classes
	declared as final cannot be extended. Methods declared as final
	cannot be overridden.
	
finally:
	finally is a block. The finally block always executes when the
	try block exits. This ensures that the finally block is executed
	even if an unexpected exception occurs. But finally is useful for
	more than just exception handling - it allows the programmer to
	avoid having cleanup code accidentally bypassed by a return,
	continue, or break. Putting cleanup code in a finally block is
	always a good practice, even when no exceptions are anticipated.
	
finalize:
	finalize is a method. Before an object is garbage collected, the
	runtime system calls its finalize() method. You can write system
	resources release code in finalize() method before getting garbage
	collected.

What is a constructor ?
A constructor is a bit of code that allows you to create objects from a class

What is "this" keyword in java ?
Within an instance method or a constructor, this is a reference to the current object — the object whose method or constructor 
is being called. You can refer to any member of the current object from within an instance method or a constructor by using this.

What is JVM stand for ? 
Java virtual machine.

What version of java are you using? Java SE-1.8

What is JAR stand for ?
JAR stands for "Java ARchive". A JAR file is basically a zip-file which contains a couple of class files and a text file containing some meta information.

JAR files can be used to bundle a Java library containing many classes into a single file (which does not need to be unzipped
in order to be used by a java programmer) or to bundle a Java application into a so-called executable JAR file (an executable 
JAR file is just a JAR file whose meta-information contains the information, which class is the main class, i.e. the class
 whose main method should be run to execute the application).
 
What is compile time and run time?

A compiled program can be opened and run by a user. When an application is running, it is called runtime.

What is heap?

A heap is a specialized tree-based data structure that satisfies the heap property: If A is a parent node of B then the key 
of node A is ordered with respect to the key of node B with the same ordering applying across the heap.

How java manage it's memory?

The JVM divided the memory into following sections. 
1. Heap
2. Stack
3. Code
4. Static

This division of memory is required for its effective management.

 The code section contains your bytecode.

 The Stack section of memory contains methods, local variables and reference variables.

 The Heap section contains Objects (may also contain reference variables).

 The Static section contains Static data/methods.


